 # Meet the Team!

 ## Emily Michaud
    * Hi, my name is Emily and I am currently a senior majoring in computer science! As a senior in her last semester, I am excited to build one final project that will encompass all of the computer science knowledge I have gained and am still learning over the past 4 years at college. I am excited to create an application that is built using the microservices architecture, as I believe this architectural style is very beneficial for creating maintainable and scalable web systems. I have a lot of knowledge using the Javascript/Typescript programming language, working with SQL databases, creating Express REST APIs, creating Javascript/HTML UIs. I have a decent amount of knowledge using applications like Docker as well. I am currently a Healthcare Software Engineer working with MITRE, where I have gained a lot of experience coding on both the backend and frontend side. From this job I have also gained a lot of experience working collaboratly on a team with a large codebase, which is actually organized in a similar architectural style to the microservices architecture. I hope to learn a variety of applications and skills that can help in creating high performance applications for a large number of users, as I believe this is essential when creating successful applications for the modern web. 
 ## Duy Pham 
    * I'm a junior majoring in computer science, and I'm fascinated by web technologies, especially things related to system architecture. By doing this project, I hope to learn essential skills for creating performance and optimized applications that could serve thousands of users. I could contribute to the team on the backend side with my working experience as an SE intern.