# Cooking Recipe App

## Team Organization
Our team is made up of 4 students who each will be working on their own individual microservices that will work together and communicate with each other in order to create a fully functioning recipe application. We are communicating via Discord, in which we have created a server that all our team members have joined specifically for this project. Here, we can easily send updates or ask questions by sending messages through the Discord server's chat feature. We also can use the Discord server to set up a voice call that we all can join so that we can easily all talk to one another and work together. Every week, we plan to send updates to one another at least once every two days through the Discord chat, and we expect that we will each check Discord regularly to make sure we can get responses to questions and ideas as soon as possible. This means we will most likely be coding at least every other day on the assignment, even if just for a short while some days, to ensure that we meet every deadline and produce quality work. We also will be meeting with the Professor once a week every Friday in order to discuss ideas, problems, and plans for our application. We are organizing our team in this way as we believe this is the most efficient way to work as a team remotely. 

Since we all have very different schedules with school and have other classes homework to consider along with this project, we felt it was better to allow some freedom as to when each team member wanted to work on their portion on the project, so that they could pick whatever time worked best with their current schedule and workload. However, we still wanted to implement regular updates to ensure that no one leaves all their work until the very last minute or that no one decides not to complete their portion of the assignment. We also chose Discord to communicate as it is a great platform that can be easily accessed via the computer or on mobile, meaning that we expect group members to easily be able to check the group's Discord regularly in order to send updates or respond to other group member's comments. 

## Project Ideas
The main idea of our project is to create a cooking recipe application that can help users find and share recipes in a fast and easy way. We want to create an application that allows multiple users to find recipes that they can make based on preferences or available ingredients, and that allows users to share their own recipes for other users to enjoy. Although we may add to this in the future, some current application ideas we hope to implement include:

* Users can find recipes they can make given the current ingredients they have in their kitchen
    * One important feature we hope to implement is the ability for users to insert the current ingredients they have in their kitchen, and then recieve a list of recipes they can make using only those ingredients.This is extremely useful when users need to start cooking dinner and are not sure what to make, but they do not want to run out to the store to buy any new foods. We believe this feature will make finding recipes to cook for dinner much easier and faster than if users had to just browse a huge list of recipes in which they may not even have the ingredients for. 
    * Our application will need to handle multiple requests from potentially a large number of users with a large amount of request data (all the ingredients they currenty have). For each user request, a large amount of recipe data will have to be searched through in order to find recipes that only contain the ingredients the user has specified. Therefore, as the number of users increases and the number of stored recipes increases, scalability will become important in handling these requests in an efficient and responsive way. 
* Users can find recipes according to specific dietary preferences such as number of calories, if the meal is vegetarian or vegan, how long the recipe takes to make, how many servings the recipe makes, etc.
    * Often times people have certain dietary preferences or restrictions that limit what types of recipes they may be interested in, so we hope to implement a way for users to filter recipes by a wide variety of dietary choices. This will allow users to narrow down their searches by being able to only show recipes that meet their dietary interestes or needs. 
    * Our application will have to handle a potentially large number of users sending in requests for recipes that meet certain dietary choice filters. With a large amount of incoming request and/or a large amount of recipes to filter based on the incoming user's requested filters, we will need to make sure our servers can handle all the requests and filtering processing in a fast and reliable way. Scalability will help to ensure we can handle this large amount of data processing and request handling as the number of users and the number of stored recipes increases.
* Users can browse all recipes or search for specific recipes 
    * Some users may not care if they have the current ingredients to make a recipe and they might not have any specific dietary choices that they want to filter their list of available recipes by. Instead, users may just want to browse our entire store of recipes in order to find one that interests them. Therefore, we want to make sure that our application can present all the recipes in a way that is easy to interact with and browse. We want to make sure we design a clean user interface that does not clutter the user with too much data at a time, but is simple and fast to use when browsing through large amounts of recipe data. Users may also know the exact recipe they are looking for, and so they should be able to search by recipe as well in order to find what they are looking for quickly.
    * Users searching through all recipes will need to grab large amounts of stored recipe data to be displayed for browsing. In order to do this in a responsive way, the UI will only be able to show a few recipes at a time with the user needing to request more recipes as they browse. If many users are browsing all at once, or the number of stored recipes becomes very large, this could put a lot of stress on our servers hosting the recipe database. Therefore, scalability will become important so that large amounts of recipe data can be sent to multiple users in a fast and reliable way. 
* Users can post their own recipes that other users can then find and enjoy
    * Since many of the users using this application probably like to cook, it is most likely the case that many of them might have their own family recipes that they would like to share with other users. Therefore, we want our application to make it easy for users to upload their own recipes and then make these recipes available to other users using the application. 
    * As more and more users post their own recipes, we will need to ensure we have the storage space to handle incoming new recipe data. Therefore, scalability of our database storage system will become very important so that users can continue to post new recipes without ever running out of storage space. 
* Users can rate recipes and leave comments for each recipe
    * Sometimes it can be hard to make a decision on a recipe to cook when you have no idea what it might taste like or if it will even be any good, which is where ratings and reviews become very important. For each recipe, we would like our application to offer users to rate and leave review comments for other users to see. This way, users browsing through recipes could base some of their decisions off of the average rating of a recipe, or if the reviews for the recipe are very positive. This would also allow users to post comments about things they might have found make the recipe better or worse, or that make the recipe taste a certain way. 
    * Rating recipes and leaving comments for each recipe introduces a lot of extra data that must be stored for each recipe. For a large number of users there could potentially be a very large amounts of reviews and ratings to store for each recipe, and with a large amount of recipes on top of this, the storage needs of all this data becomes exceedingly great. Therefore, scalability of our database storage system will become very important so that a large amount of users can continue to leave comments and rate recipes for a large number of recipes without ever running out of storage space. 